

The study of web tracking began in 2005 as mentioned in research paper but it has started since 1996. From script based data communication system and utilizing state memory to having Java applet that stores information in web browser, we have changed the definition of third party web browsing. The process of data collection and analysis contains started when the user is visiting websites. Through website visits, when there is enough data collected in the database through automatic browsing and event measurements. Then the analysis and visualization replays the event and looks for tracking behavior.  

Although it wasn’t intended, people utilized wayback machine for retrospective web measurements. It has a histogram of snapshot of the pages you can visit. It has 11 petabyte of websites archived. This allowed us to learn more about third party web tracking using available web data. The one of the drawback of the the wayback machine is that it only considers last cookie set to track data even though there are multiple cookies being applied. Wayback machine doesn’t provide actual images of the website but it shows URLs that tell us if it was either first party or third party request. Wayback machine deletes the previous browsing history if the user decides not to save any data in database. Another tracking system that is stronger then wayBack machine is pop ups. It is because when you have an pop up you have first party cookies enabled and that would still able to store data even though a user has third party cookie blocking. 

This paper and research talked about cookie based web tracking mainly and provides results based on gathered data over longitude period of time. Another building block of internet is using client/server model as TCP/IP[1]. In this method the information is contained by third party site from user computer using server site. At first, the server program writes at least one transferable file to user computer. Then, first client program gathers usage information from user computer. After that, the first client program of the user computer writes the usage information to one transmittable file and writes the address of the file corresponding to third party server. At the end, the second client program of user computer writes at least one transmittable file to third party server. This method is mentioned under patient US6405214B1 and is interesting because it uses user’s CPU and storage device in order to gather information and depended on internet cookies. 

References 
U.S. Patent No. US6405214B1. (n.d.). Washington, DC: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
Lerner A., Simpson A. K., Kohno T., and Roesner F.,(2016). Internet Jones and the Raiders of the lost trackers: An archaeological study of web tracking from 1996 to 2016. University of Washington.  Retrieved from https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity16/technical-sessions/presentation/lerner
